*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 70098 ***






  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_




  HANDBOOK

  OF

  Old Burial Hill

  PLYMOUTH, MASSACHUSETTS.

  Its History,
  Its Famous Dead, and
  Its Quaint Epitaphs.

  BY
  FRANK H. PERKINS.


  PUBLISHED BY
  A. S. Burbank,
  Pilgrim Bookstore, Plymouth, Mass.




Copyright, 1902, by A. S. BURBANK, Plymouth, Mass.




INDEX


               PAGE

  Atwood, Mehitable,                                                40


  Bartlett, Joseph,                                                 37

      ”     Thomas,                                                 40

  Bradford, Gov. William,                                   13, 15, 16

      ”     Maj. William,                                       35, 36

  Bramhall, Phebe J.,                                               41

  Brewster, Capt. Ellis,                                            47

      ”     Nancy,                                                  47

      ”     William,                                                47


  Carver, Capt. Nathaniel,                                          30

      ”   Gov.,                                                     17

  Clark, Hannah,                                                    13

      ”  Thomas,                                            13, 17, 18

  Cobb, Isaac Eames,                                                40

  Cook, Caleb,                                                  31, 33

  Cotton, children of John and Josiah,                          13, 37

      ”   Rachel,                                                   44

  Crombie, Fanny,                                                   43

  Crowe, William,                                           13, 14, 15

  Cushman, Robert,                                                  20

      ”    Thomas,                                      13, 19, 20, 21


  Doggett, Jane,                                                    37

  Dyer, Mary,                                                       43


  Farrell, Andrew,                                                  41

  Faunce, Elder Thomas,                                         26, 49

  Finney, children of Ephraim,                                      37

  Fort, site of,                                                     9


  “Gen. Arnold,” seamen of,                                         24

  Goodwin, Gen. Nathaniel,                                          30

      ”    Hannah,                                                  45

      ”    Nathaniel,                                               23

  Gray, Edward,                                                 13, 15


  Hammatt, Abraham,                                                 26

  Harlow, Benjamin,                                                 41

  Hobart, Priscilla,                                                38

  Holbrook, Peggy,                                                  44

  Holmes, Bathsheba James,                                          46

  Howard, John W.,                                                  39

  Howland, Consider,                                                26

      ”    Hannah,                                                  25

      ”    John,                                                13, 17


  Jackson, Anna,                                                    45

      ”    Ezra Thayer,                                             45

      ”    Frederick,                                               45

      ”    F. W.,                                                   44

      ”    Harriet,                                                 46

      ”    Nathaniel,                                           38, 39

      ”    Thomas,                                                  44

  Jordan, James,                                                    38

  Judson family,                                            32, 33, 35

      ”  Rev. Adoniram,                                             33


  Keen, William,                                                    44

  Kempton, children of Zacheus,                                     39

  Kendall, Rev. James,                                              27


  Le Baron, Dr. Francis,                                            22

   ”   ”    Dr. Lazarus,                                            23

  Little, Dr. Thomas,                                               40

  Lothrop, Col. Isaac,                                              38


  Magee, Capt. James,                                               24

  Morton, Nathaniel,                                            35, 48


  “Nameless Nobleman,”                                              22


  Oldest grave,                                                     13

      ”  stone,                                                     13


  Paty, Thomas,                                                     39

  Pearson, Capt. William,                                           31

  Plasket, Joseph,                                                  46

      ”    Tabitha,                                                 46

  Powder-house,                                                     45


  Rider, John,                                                      36

  Ring, Ansel,                                                      24

    ”   William,                                                    37

  Revolutionary Patriots,                                           31

  Robbins, Lemuel Cobb,                                             47

      ”    Rev. Chandler,                                           27

      ”    Sally C.,                                                37

  Russell, Thomas,                                              34, 35

  Sampson, Capt. Simeon,                                    26, 28, 29

  Savery, Elizabeth,                                                47

  Spooner, Sarah,                                               41, 42

      ”    Thomas,                                                  42

  Symmes, Hannah,                                                   44

  Taylor, Capt. Jacob,                                              30

  Thatcher, Dr. James,                                              31

  Thomas, Dr. William,                                              31

      ”   John,                                                     31

      ”   Joseph,                                                   31

      ”   Joshua,                                                   31

      ”   Nathaniel,                                            13, 31

  Tilley, Elizabeth,                                                17

  Tufts, William Drew,                                              36


  Warren, Col. Ben,                                                 31

      ”   Gen. James,                                               28

      ”   James,                                                    28

      ”   Mercy,                                                    28

  Watch-tower site of,                                               9

[Illustration: Priscilla]




The Old Burying-Ground.

  “The Pilgrim Fathers are at rest:
    When Summer’s throned on high,
  And the world’s warm breast is in verdure dressed,
    Go, stand on the hill where they lie.
  The earliest ray of the golden day
    On that hallowed spot is cast,
  And the evening sun, as he leaves the world,
    Looks kindly on that spot last.”

  —PIERPONT.


No spot in Plymouth is so interesting to the antiquary as Burial
Hill. Here are the sites of the Pilgrims’ fort and watch-tower. Here
sleep the early settlers of the colony, the heroes of the Revolution
and of our later wars, and the men who went “down to the sea in
ships” and braved dangers, in the days of Plymouth’s maritime glory.
Here are to be seen the rude symbols of the sculptor’s art and the
crude effusions of the elegiac poet.

Burial Hill is 165 feet above the sea level, and rises abruptly just
back of the town’s busiest thoroughfare. It is irregular in form and
contains about eight acres. From this elevation the visitor has a
splendid panorama of ocean and country. Nestling at his feet, between
the hill and the sea, are the thickly clustering roofs of the old
town. Turning his eyes northward, he sees in the far distance the
villages of Kingston and Duxbury and the monument on Captain’s Hill,
erected in memory of Myles Standish, the doughty Pilgrim commander.
To the west stretches a rolling swell of hills, ending in an almost
unbroken forest, through whose shades Massasoit led his warriors to
meet the Plymouth colonists. On the south, shrouded in purple mist,
are the “Pine Hills” of Manomet. Looking eastward, across the bay he
spies the green dot known as Clark’s Island, where the Pilgrims spent
their first Sabbath; and far beyond the shining strand of Plymouth
Beach, if the day be clear and his vision keen, he can just discern
Provincetown, at the point of Cape Cod,—the “tip end of Yankee-land.”

[Illustration: Clark’s Island.]

Visited as it is daily by tourists from all parts of the world, it
is fitting that this consecrated ground should be well cared for and
that its surroundings should be somewhat in keeping with its historic
character. By the will of J. Henry Stickney of Baltimore, late
vice-president of the Pilgrim Society, $10,000 was bequeathed for
improvements on this ground. It had been suggested that the legacy
be used in removing some, at least, of the unsightly buildings which
skirt the foot of the hill on the easterly side, and in the erection
of an ornamental gateway at the Town Square entrance.

[Illustration: Church of the First Parish.]

There are several ways of approaching Burial Hill, but the main
entrance is at Town Square. As we pass through the gateway the new
First Church, now in process of building (1896), looms up on our
left. It is of gray stone, in the Norman type of architecture,
and its severity of style is suggestive of the rugged lives of
the Fathers. In the vestibule of the square central tower will be
placed tablets of a historical character. This church is the oldest
religious organization in the country. In an unbroken succession the
ministry of this church has continued from the days of Robinson and
Brewster to the present. Its records are piously preserved.

[Illustration: The Old Fort and First Meeting-house.]

Aside from its interest to those who find pleasure in meditation
among the tombs of past generations, Burial Hill has a history which
forms a part of the early history of the town. Long before the spot
was used for burial purposes, it served as a ground for possible
defence against the savage foe, and here the first church of the
colony was established. Shortly after the landing of the Pilgrims,
on Dec. 21, 1620, they set about to provide against attack from the
redskins, and we learn from their records that “in one field is
a great hill, on which we poynt to make a platform and plant our
ordnance, which will command all round about.”

In 1622 a larger fort was erected, and in 1627 De Raisieres describes
it as a large square house, with flat roof made of thick sawn planks,
stayed with oak beams, upon the top of which six cannon were mounted.
The lower part was used for a church. The Pilgrims assembled at beat
of drum, each with his musket or firelock, and marched to the place
of worship.

The exact situation of this fort is unknown. No traces of it remain.
It is reasonable to suppose, however, that it stood well toward the
top of the hill on the southeasterly side, on a spot which would
command the approach from Leyden Street (the first thoroughfare) on
the east and the approach from the path leading to the fording-place
on the south. This path, now Spring Street, leads directly from the
hill to Town Brook.

On Sept. 23, 1643, it was agreed that a watchhouse “shall be
forthwith built of brick.” This structure stood at the top of the
hill, on the southeasterly side, and commanded a wide view of all
the country about. Its bounds are marked by four square granite
blocks, and a small oval stone on a standard, suitably inscribed,
more definitely designates the location. Within recent years pieces
of the brick of which this watchhouse, or watch-tower, as it is more
commonly called, have been unearthed.

Strolling down the southeasterly slope, the visitor comes to another
similar oval stone, which tells us that here stood the old fort,
erected in 1621. This may be the site of the first fortification,
but history makes no record of it. We have evidence, however, that
in 1676, when invasion from King Philip, the Indian chieftain, was
feared, a fort was built on this spot, and the conformation of the
ground indicates the existence at some time of such a work. On Feb.
19, 1676, the colonists decided to erect a fortification, “to be
a hundred foot square, the pallasadoes to be ten foot and a halfe
longe; to be sett two foot and a halfe in the Ground; and to be
sett against a post and a Rail ... and that there shal be a watch
house erected within the said ffence or fortification, and that the
three peece of ordnance shal be planted within the said ffence or
fortification ... said watch house which is to be sixteen foot in
length and twelve foot in breadth and eight foot stud, to be walled
with board.”

This construction is significant of the peril of the times and of
the stern and unbending determination of the Forefathers. With the
close of King Philip’s War the fort was abandoned, and in 1677 the
material of which it was built was granted to one William Harlow.
Some of the massive timbers were used in the construction of the old
Harlow house on Sandwich Street, and are still to be seen.

[Illustration: William Harlow House, 1677.

Built of timber from old Burial Hill Fort.]


The hill was not used as a place of burial until after it was
abandoned for defensive purposes. Those of the “Mayflower” company
who died the first winter were buried on Cole’s Hill, and, while no
traces of their graves remain, a tablet appropriately inscribed marks
their resting-place. Others of the Pilgrim band found burial on their
own estates, and no man knoweth their sepulchre. The first mention
of Burial Hill as a cemetery was in 1698, when Chief Justice Sewall
recorded the following in his diary: “I walk out in the morn to see
the mill, then turn up to the graves, come down to the meeting-house,
and seeing the door partly open went in and found a very convenient
place to pray.”

[Illustration: General View.]

The oldest stone in this ground is that of Edward Gray, and bears
the date of 1681. It is probable, however, that earlier burials took
place here. Tradition says that the oldest grave is that of John
Howland, who died in 1672, although the stone which marks it was
erected within comparatively recent years. Tradition also places here
the earthly remains of Gov. William Bradford, and a monument bearing
his name rises among the graves of the Bradford family, the exact
place of the Governor’s interment, however, not being designated.

There are six ancient gravestones bearing date before 1700, as
follows:—

  Edward Gray, 1681.
  William Crowe, 1683-84.
  Hannah Clark, 1687.
  Thomas Cushman, 1691.
  Thomas Clark, 1697.
  Ten children of John and Josiah Cotton, 1699.

Possibly there is a seventh,—the defaced tombstone of Nathaniel
Thomas, who is said to have died in 1697. The figures on the stone
are illegible.

All these stones are on the summit of the hill, within a narrow
radius, and near the intersection of the two main paths. With the
exception of Gray’s, all are of English make, and in fact most of
those bearing dates to 1745 were brought from across the water.

[Illustration: William Crowe tombstone]

The Gray stone, the oldest on the hill, as has been said, is of dark,
compact slate. It probably has the usual “cherub,” or symbol; if
so, it is concealed by the iron hood which protects the edges from
water and frost. By its side is a wooden slab bearing the legend,
“The Grave of Edward Gray, June, 1681.” The inscription on the stone
is as follows:—

  Here Lyeth ye Body
  of E D W A R D  G R A Y
  Gent Aged About
  52 years & Departd
  this life ye Last of
  June 1681

Edward Gray appeared in Plymouth about the year 1643. Tradition has
it that he and his brother were sent from England in order that
scheming relations might obtain possession of their property. He
became a merchant, and the wealthiest man in the colony.

The stone of William Crowe, the next in order of date, is of purple
slate and is thus inscribed:—

  Here lies buried
  ye body of Mr
  W I L L I A M  C R O W E
  Aged About 55 years
  who decd January
  1683-4

The Bradford obelisk is one of the first objects to claim the
visitor’s attention. It is of white marble on a granite base, and
rises to a height of eight feet or more. On the south side are these
words:—

  H I William Bradford of Austerfield Yorkshire England. Was the son
  of William and Alice Bradford He was Governor of Plymouth Colony
  from 1621 to 1633 1635 1637 1639 to 1643 1645 to 1657

On the north side is a Hebrew sentence, said to signify “Jehovah is
our help,” but by other Hebrew scholars translated “In Jehovah’s
name I die.” Then follows:—

[Illustration: Gov. Bradford’s Monument.]

  Under this stone rest the ashes of William Bradford a zealous
  Puritan & sincere Christian Gov. of Ply. Col. from 1621 to 1657,
  (the year he died) aged 69, except 5 yrs. which he declined.

The grave of that sturdy old Pilgrim, John Howland, has a great
attraction for thousands who tread this sacred soil, many of whom
come from the good old Pilgrim stock. The stone is of reddish hue,
tall and wide, and bears the following beautiful inscription:—

  Here ended the Pilgrimage of
  J O H N  H O W L A N D
  who died February 23, 167⅔
  aged above 80 years.
  He married Elizabeth daughter of
  J O H N  T I L L E Y
  who came with him in the
  Mayflower Dec. 1620.
  From them are descended a
  numerous posterity.

       *       *       *       *       *

  “Hee was a godly man and an ancient professor in the wayes of
  Christ. Hee was one of the first comers into this land and was the
  last man that was left of those that came over in the Shipp called
  the Mayflower that lived in Plymouth.”

  _Plymouth Records._

One of the six stones bearing date in the seventeenth century marks
the grave of Thomas Clark, or Clarke, who is often spoken of as
the “mate of the ‘Mayflower.’” History, however, tells a different
story, and it is known that the name of the first officer of the
ship was John Clark. The stone is of purple Welsh slate, and is thus
lettered:—

  Here lyes ye body of Mr. Thomas Clark aged 98 years departed this
  life March ye 24th 1697.

A huge boulder has been recently placed on this grave, and a metallic
plate secured to it reads:—

  Here lies buried ye body of Mr. Thomas Clarke, aged 98. Departed
  this life March 24, 1697. Thomas Clarke came to Plymouth from
  England in the ship Anne 1623. He married Susan Ring of Plymouth,
  1634. Their children were Andrew, James, William, Susanna,
  Nathaniel, and John. From whom descended a numerous posterity. He
  married his second wife, Mrs. Alice Hallett Nichols of Boston,
  in 1664. He lived for some years in Boston, and also in Harwich,
  of which town he was one of the original proprietors. He died in
  Plymouth, having lived in the reigns of six British sovereigns and
  the Com’th. This stone is erected to his memory by his descendants
  A.D. 1891.

[Illustration: Thomas Clark tombstone]

It is with reverent step that the latter-day Pilgrim approaches the
Cushman monument, an enduring memorial to a “precious servant of
God.” This is a granite column, twenty-five feet high, and it is
by far the most conspicuous monument on the hill. There is a bronze
tablet on each of its four sides, that on the northerly side reading
as follows:—

[Illustration: Cushman Monument.]

  R O B E R T  C U S H M A N,

  Fellow-exile with the Pilgrims in Holland,
  Afterwards their chief agent in England,
  Arrived here -IX- November, -MDCXXI,
  With Thomas Cushman his son:
  Preached -IX- December,
  His memorable sermon on “The Danger of self-love
  And the sweetness of true friendship:”
  Returned to England -XIII- December,
  To vindicate the enterprise of Christian emigration;
  And there remained in the service of the Colony Till -MDCXXV,
  When, having prepared to make Plymouth His permanent home.

West side:—

  He died, lamented by the forefathers
  as “their ancient friend,—who was
  as their right hand with their friends
  the adventurers, and for divers years
  had done and agitated all their business
  with them to their great advantage.”

  “And you, my loving friends, the adventurers
  to this plantation, as your care has been first
  to settle religion here before either profit
  or popularity, so, I pray you, go on.——
  I rejoice——that you thus honor God
  with your riches, and I trust you shall be repaid
  again double and treble in this world, yea,
  and the memory of this action shall never die.”

  DEDICATION OF THE SERMON.

South side:—

  T H O M A S  C U S H M A N.

  Son of Robert, died -X- December, MDCXCI,
  Aged nearly -LXXXIV- years.
  For more than -XLII- years he was
  Ruling Elder of the First Church in Plymouth,
  By whom a tablet was placed to mark his grave on this spot,
  Now consecrated anew by a more enduring memorial.

  M A R Y,

  widow of Elder Cushman, and daughter of Isaac Allerton,
  Died -XXVIII- November, MDCXCIX, aged about -XC- years,
  The last survivor of the first comers in the Mayflower.

East side:—

  Erected by
  The descendants of
  Robert Cushman
  In memory of their Pilgrim Ancestors,
  XVI- September, MDCCCLVIII.

[Illustration: Thomas Cushman tombstone]

The stone originally erected over the grave of Elder Thomas Cushman
was removed in 1858 to make room for this memorial, and now stands a
little distance from its first position. It is of purple Welsh slate,
and is in a remarkable state of preservation. The inscription is as
follows:—

  Here lyeth buried ye body of that precious servant of God, Mr.
  T H O M A S  C U S H M A N, who after he had served his generation
  according to the will of God, and particularly the church of
  Plymouth for many years in the office of a ruleing elder fell
  asleep in Jesus Decmr. ye 10, 1691 & ye 84. year of his age.

[Illustration: Francis Le Barran tombstone]

There is always eager inquiry from the visitors to Burial Hill for
the grave of the “Nameless Nobleman,” the hero of Mrs. Jane G.
Austin’s famous historical novel of that title. We find it near the
Cushman monument. The stone has the small figure of an hourglass at
its top, under which appears the winged cherub, the sculpture being
better defined than is usual in such old work. The inscription reads:—

  Here lyes ye body of Mr. FRANCIS LE BARRAN phytician who departed
  this life Augst ye 18th 1704, in ye 36 year of his age.

Dr. Le Baron was the surgeon of a French ship which was wrecked
in Buzzard’s Bay in 1694. With the officers and crew he was taken
prisoner and sent to Boston. On their way a stop was made at
Plymouth, where the doctor had occasion to perform a surgical
operation. This led to a request, made by the citizens to the
lieutenant-governor, and granted, that he be allowed to remain in the
town. From him the numerous Le Barons in America are descended.

[Illustration: Nathaniel Goodwin tombstone]

By the side of Dr. Le Baron is buried his wife Mary, who after his
death married a Wait. Near by is the grave of their son, Dr. Lazarus
Le Baron, who also figures in Mrs. Austin’s writings; and in the
rear of these graves is seen the tombstone of Nathaniel Goodwin, the
great-grandfather of Mrs. Jane (Goodwin) Austin, who married Lydia,
daughter of Lazarus Le Baron.

Various other people mentioned in Mrs. Austin’s novels are buried in
this ground. Among them is Ansel Ring, who, as we are told in “Dr. Le
Baron and His Daughters,” was cursed by the old witch, Mother Crewe.
He lies with the sixty seamen who perished on board the “General
Arnold.” A marble shaft on the extreme southwesterly edge of the
hill marks the place of their interment. The inscription on the
northeasterly side is:—

  In memory of Seventy two Seamen who perished in Plymouth harbour
  on the 26, and 27, days of December 1778, on board the private
  armed Brig, Gen. Arnold, of twenty guns, James Magee of Boston,
  Commander, sixty of whom were buried on this spot.

On the northwesterly side:—

  Capt. James Magee died in Roxbury, February 4, 1801; aged 51 years.

On the southwesterly side:—

  Oh! falsely flattering were yon billows smooth
  When forth, elated, sailed in evil hour,
  That vessel whose disastrous fate, when told,
  Fill’d every breast with sorrow and each eye
  With piteous tears.

On the southeasterly side:—

  This monument marks the resting place of sixty of the seventy two
  mariners, “who perished in their strife with the storm,” and is
  erected by Stephen Gale of Portland, Maine, a stranger to them, as
  a just memorial of their sufferings and death.

[Illustration: Hannah Howland tombstone]

Another of Mrs. Austin’s characters is Hannah Howland, who is said to
have died of a broken heart on account of Ring’s sad end. Her stone
is to be found on the crown of the hill, not far from the Le Baron
graves. Its inscription reads:—

  _Sic Transit Gloria Mundi_
  To the memory of Miss Hannah Howland, who died of a
  Languishment, January ye 25th 1780 Ætatis 26.

  For us they languish, & for us they die
  And shall they languish shall they die in vain.

Readers of “Dr. Le Baron and His Daughters” will recall the following
reference to the graves of the Howland family:—

  Consider Howland slept with his fathers on Burying Hill, and Ruth
  Bryant, his loving wife, had meekly followed him thither. You may
  see their stones today, in the shadow of that majestic though
  mistaken monument to the memory of John Howland, the Pilgrim, who
  married Elizabeth Tilley, and not Ellzabeth, daughter of childless
  Governor Carver. There too may you see a plaintive little stone to
  the memory of

  Consider son to Mr Consider
  and Mrs. Ruth Howland,
  Aged 7 years.

The graves of Capt. Abraham Hammatt and Capt. Simeon Sampson, both
mentioned in “Dr. Le Baron and His Daughters,” are to be seen here.

Capt. Sampson’s tombstone is referred to among those of the
Revolutionary patriots. That of Capt. Hammatt is near the group of
Howland graves, and is thus inscribed:—

  In This sacred spot Are deposited the remains of Capt Abraham
  Hammatt who died of a malignant Fever October 12th 1797 _Ætatis_ 47
  And of his daughter Sophia who On the fst December following Fell a
  victim to the same Disease _Ætatis_ 13.

  Hers was the mildness of the rising Morn
  And his the radiance of the risen day.

The stone of Elder Faunce occupies a prominent position on the
hilltop. It bears the figure of a skeleton, seated on an hourglass.
The left hand of the skeleton holds a scythe, and wings are attached
to the hourglass. Above the figure is the drawing of a scallop shell.
The inscription is:—

  Here lyes buried the Body of Mr. THOMAS FAUNCE ruling
  ELDER of the first Church of CHRIST in _Plymouth_
  deceased Febry 27th An: Dom. 1745-6 in the 99th year of his Age.

  The Fathers, where are they?
  Blessed are the dead who
  Die in the Lord.


Near by are entombed the remains of Dr. Chandler Robbins, and on the
stone we read:—

  This Stone Consecrated to the memory Of the Revd Chandler Robbins D
  D was erected By the inhabitants of the first Religious Society in
  Plymouth As their last grateful tribute of respect For his eminent
  labors In the ministry of J E S U S  C H R I S T Which commenced
  January 30th 1760 And continued till his death June 30th 1799
  Ætatis 61 When he entered into the everlasting rest Prepared for
  the faithful ambassadors Of the most high God.

  Ah come heaven’s radiant Offspring hither throng
  Behold your prophet your Elijah fled
  Let sacred symphony attune each tongue
  To chant hosannahs with the virtuous dead.

[Illustration: James Kendall tombstone]

A few feet away is the white marble slab erected to the memory of
another noted divine, Dr. James Kendall, of blessed memory, who for
more than half a century served the First Church as its pastor. It is
thus inscribed:—

  Rev. James Kendall, D.D. Ordained 1 Jan. 1800. Died 17 March 1859.
  Aged 89 years. For sixty years Minister of the First Parish in this
  town.

Plymouth played her part in the Revolution, and of her soldiers and
sailors who fought in that memorable struggle a number are buried in
this historic ground.

Near the site of the old fort an iron fence encloses the Warren lot.
Within it stands the monument of Gen. James Warren, president of the
Provincial Congress and major-general of the militia. He died in
1808. His wife, Mercy Warren, sister of James Otis, the patriot, lies
in the same enclosure. She was a woman of marked literary ability,
and the author of several works. Their son James, who served with
Paul Jones on the “Bon Homme Richard,” and who lost a limb in one of
the naval engagements, is said to have been buried in this lot, but
there is no stone to indicate the grave. It is quite probable that
the body was laid away in the Warren tomb, at the foot of the hill.

[Illustration: Simeon Sampson tombstone]

Capt. Simeon Sampson was another Revolutionary hero of renown. His
stone is to be seen on the northerly side of the hill, near the path
leading from School to Russell Streets. In 1762 he was taken prisoner
by the French and held for ransom, but escaped from his captors by
assuming female attire. At the outbreak of the Revolution, when a
marine force was deemed necessary to protect our commerce from
depredation by British cruisers, he was the first naval captain in
the continental service to be appointed by the Provincial Congress
of Massachusetts. He died in 1789 at the age of fifty-three, and his
epitaph tells us:—

  O ye whose cheek the tear of pity stains
  Draw near with pious reverence and attend
  Here lie the loving Husbands dear remains
  The tender Father and the courteous Friend
  The dauntless heart yet touched by human woe
  A Friend to man to vice alone a Foe.

Not far away is the stone of Gen. Nathaniel Goodwin, a well-known
military character of the last century. His house was where the
Baptist church now stands. He had charge of the enlistments for the
Revolutionary army in this quarter of the State. On the surrender of
Burgoyne and his men, Gen. Goodwin was placed in command of the guard
over them at Somerville. Burgoyne’s sword fell into his possession.
He died in 1819.

Just across the path from the grave of William Crowe is the tombstone
of Capt. Jacob Taylor, another of Plymouth’s Revolutionary patriots,
who died in 1788. Beneath the name and date we read these quaintly
worded lines:—

  Through life he brav’d her foe if great or small
  And march’d out forem_u_st at his country’s call.

On the southeasterly hillside we catch sight of the name of Capt.
Nathaniel Carver, beneath the weeping-willow and urn, the common
mortuary emblems of those days. Capt. Carver commanded a vessel
which was captured by the famous Admiral Nelson. The Yankee captain
was enabled, however, to do the great naval officer a good turn by
piloting him out of a place of danger; and the following document,
in possession of Hon. William T. Davis, the historian of Plymouth,
explains itself:—

  These are to certify that I took the schooner Harmony. Nathaniel
  Carver, master, belonging to Plymouth, but on acc’t of his good
  services have given him up his vessel again. Dated on b’d His
  Majesty’s ship Albemarle, 7 Aug., 1782, in Boston Bay.

  HORATIO NELSON.


On the west side of the hill are the graves of Dr. William Thomas,
a surgeon in the expedition against Louisburg in 1745; and his sons
Joshua, who was on the staff of the Revolutionary Gen. Thomas;
Joseph, a captain of artillery in the Revolution; John, a surgeon’s
mate under his father; and Nathaniel, who was also engaged in the
struggle for independence.

Other soldiers of our first war who are buried here are Dr. James
Thatcher, a surgeon in the American army, and an early historian of
Plymouth; Col. Ben Warren, a brave officer, whose grave is unmarked:
and Capt. William Pearson, who, as his epitaph informs us, was “a
true patriot and a hero of the Revolution.” Col. Warren, by the
way, has some claim to distinction from having married four wives,
the last marriage taking place fifty-eight years after the first—a
circumstance which for a time puzzled the searchers of genealogical
records. Speaking of “men of war,” mention should be made of Caleb
Cook, whose place of interment is near the Le Baron graves. He was
with Capt. Church at the battle in which King Philip was killed.
There are known to be graves of at least twenty-two Revolutionary
patriots on the hill, and 193 who served in the late Rebellion are
buried here.

Many visitors to Burial Hill, particularly those of the Baptist
faith who hold in reverence the name of its great missionary, find
more than a passing interest in the white marble slab which stands
as a memorial to the Judson family. It is near the site of the
watch-tower, and is enclosed by white wooden palings. It bears the
following inscription:—

[Illustration: The Judson Family.]

  Sacred to the memory of Rev. ADONIRAM JUDSON, who died Nov. 28,
  1826, Æ. 75. A faithful and devoted Minister of Christ. ELNATHAN
  JUDSON, M. D. who died at Washington City May 8, 1829, Æ. 34 years.
  ANN H. JUDSON, his dau. died May 30, 1832, Æ. 7 years. ELLEN YOUNG,
  his wife, died Nov. 25, 1832, Æ. 30 y’rs. ANN H. JUDSON, Missionary
  to Burmah, who died at Amherst, B. E. Oct. 24, 1826, Æ. 37 y’rs.
  ROGER W. JUDSON, died May 4, 1816, Æ. 8 mo. MARIA E. B. JUDSON,
  died April 24, 1827, Æ. 2 yrs. 3 mo. SARAH B. JUDSON, Missionary
  to Burmah, who died in the port of St. Helena, Sept. 1, 1845, Æ.
  42 y’rs. ADONIRAM JUDSON, D. D. Missionary of the American Baptist
  Missionary Union to the Burman Empire, who died at Sea, April 12,
  1850, Æ. 62 years. EMILY C. widow of Adoniram Judson, D. D. &
  Missionary to Burmah, died June 1, 1854, Æ. 37 y’rs. ABIGAIL BROWN
  JUDSON, born in Malden, March 21, 1791, died in Plymouth, Jan. 25,
  1884.

[Illustration: Caleb Cook tombstone]

[Illustration: Thomas Russell tombstone]

In the same enclosure is a stone inscribed as follows:—

  Sacred to the memory of MRS. ABIGAIL widow of the late Rev.
  Adoniram Judson who died Jan. 31, 1842, aged 82 years.

  Her hope was in the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
  She felt the balm and efficacy of those leaves which are for the
  healing of the nations.

  A guilty weak and helpless worm,
    On thy kind arms I fall
  Be thou my guide and righteousness
    My Jesus and my all.

A few steps along the path northward from the Judson lot, and we come
to a rough boulder on which is carved the name of Thomas Russell,
and the dates Sept. 26, 1825, and Feb. 9, 1887. Judge Russell was
for many years president of the Pilgrim Society and took an active
interest in the history of the old town. It is fitting that his
earthly remains should find a resting-place in this ground.

Under the shadow of the Bradford monument, not many feet away, is a
blue slate stone with this inscription:—

  Here lies the body of ye honorable Major William Bradford, who
  expired Feb. ye 20th 1703-4, aged 79 y’rs.

  He lived long but still was doing good
  & in his country’s service lost much blood;
  After a life well spent he’s now at rest,
  His very name and memory is blest.

The stone of Nathaniel Morton, which we see a little way beyond, is
chiefly interesting from its figure of a man rising from the tomb,
emblematic of the resurrection.

Let us take a turn on this part of the hill where we are now
standing, and note some of the quaint epitaphs. Beginning with
a low, moss-covered stone just across the path from the Russell
boulder, we find the following worthy of our attention:—

  To the memory of
  Mr John Rider who
  Dec March the 11
  1756 aged 47
  years Wanting
  4 days.

[Illustration: William Bradford tombstone]

  In memory of William Drew Tufts Son of Jona & Priscilla Tufts, Born
  Nov. 9 1791 Died at the Island of Cuba March 29 1811 aged Nineteen
  years.

  Green as the bay tree, ever green,
    With its new foliage on,
  The young, the healthful have I seen,
    I pass’d, and they were gone.

  Sacred to the memory of MISS SALLY C. ROBBINS dau’r of
  Capt. Samuel & Mrs. Sarah Robbins. She deceased by a fall from a
  chaise, Aug. 14, 1828, aged 25 years, 5 mo’s and 10 days.

  Our home is in the grave;
  Here dwells the multitude; we gaze around,
  We read their monuments, we sigh and
  while we sigh, we sink.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Here lyes ye body of William Ring who decd sum time in April 1729
  in ye 77th year of his age.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Samuel H  Josiah ye  n John Cotton  Josiah Anonymus
  Edward Josiah Edward Richard Roland 7 sons of Josiah
  Cotton who died between ye year 1712 & 1734

       *       *       *       *       *

  To the memory of the amiable Mrs. JANE DOGGET Consort of
  Mr. SETH DOGGET who died May 31 1794 in the 26th year of
  her age also an infant Daughter by her side

  Come view the seen twill fill you with surprise
  Behold the loveliest form in nature dies
  At noon she flourish’d blooming fair and gay
  At evening an extended corpse she lay.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Here lyeth buried ye body of Joseph Bartlett who departed this life
  April ye 9th 1703 in ye 38th year of his age

  J.     B.

  Thousands of years after blest Abell’s fall
  Twas said of him being dead he speakth yet
  From silent grave methinks I hear a call
  Pray fellow-mortall, don’t your death forget
              You that your eyes cast on this grave
              Know you a dying time must have.

On the easterly slope the following greet the eye:—

  This Stone is erected to the memory of twin children of Ephraim
  Finney and Phebe his wife who were born Octr 27, 1822, Elizabeth
  died March 10, 1823, Ezra died September 14, 1823.

  My friends behold what death has done
  Taken these babes when they were young
  Prepare to live prepare to die
  Prepare for long Eternity.

  James Jordan. Drowned in Smelt Pond, June 25, 1837, aged 27 y’rs.

  Buried on the day he was to have been married.

       *       *       *       *       *

Near this is a stone which is sometimes called the “Masonic stone.”
It bears the name of Nathaniel Jackson, and the date 1743. Above
the lettering the sculptor has engraved a death’s-head, a tomb, an
hourglass, cross-bones, an urn, a rose-tree, and the figure of a
skeleton seated on a globe.

  Departed this Life
  June 23, 1796,
  In the 90th year of her Age
  Madam Priscilla Hobart
  Relict
  of the Revd Noah Hobart
  late of Fairfield in Connecticut
  her third husband
  her first and Second
  were
  John Watson Esq
  and
  Honble Isaac Lothrop.

       *       *       *       *       *

  This Stone is
  erected to the memory of
  that unbiased Judge
  Faithful Officer, sincere Friend
  and honest Man
  Coll Isaac Lothrop
  who resigned this Life
  on the 26th day of April 1750
  in the 43 year of his age.

  Had Virtues Charms the power to save
  Its faithful Votaries from the grave
  This stone would neer possess the fame
  Of being marked by Lothrop’s name.

       *       *       *       *       *

Continuing our search along the southeasterly slope we find these
three. The first two quoted are near the tombs at the foot of the
hill:—

  In memory of John W. Howard Son of Capt. James Howard & Mrs. Hannah
  his wife born March 20, 1815 died April 2, 1815

  He glanc’d into the world to see
  A sample of our misery.

[Illustration: Nath. Jackson tombstone]

  In memory of Four Children of Mr Zacheus Kempton & Sarah his wife
  viz Sally aged 36 years Charles aged 21 years Woodard aged 17 years
  Robinson aged 2 years They died between 1802 & 1820.

  Stop traveller and shed a tear
  Uppon the sod of children dear.

       *       *       *       *       *

  In memory of Thomas Paty son of Mr Thomas Paty and Mrs Jorusha his
  wife who departed this life Oct 7th 1802 aged 2 years 10 months and
  20 days.

  And must thy childrin Dye so soon.


Passing around the southerly edge of the hill, we pause a moment to
read these words:—

  To the memory of Isaac Eames Cobb who was born Jany 19, 1789, and
  died Jany 14, 1821.

  Possess’d he talents ten, or five or one
  The work he had to do that work was done
  Improv’d his mind, in wisdom’s ways he trod
  Reluctant died, but died resigned to G O D.

For quaintness of diction this is well matched by the two following
headstones, which are close at hand:—

  To the memory of Thomas Bartlett son of Mr. Thomas & Mrs. Ruth
  Bartlett who died Septr 9th 1802 aged 1 year 2 months 11 days.

  That once loved form now cold & dead,
  Each mournfull thought imploys
  And nature weeps his comforts fled
  And withered all his joys,

  But ceas fond nature dry thy tears
  Religion pints on high
  And ever lasting spring appears
  And joys that never die.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Here lyes buried ye body of Mr. Thomas Little Practitioner in
  Physick & Chyrurgery Aged 58 years Decd Decemr ye 22 1712

As we turn thence westerly we pass these inscriptions:—

  Erected to the memory of Mrs. MEHITABEL, wife of Capt. Thos.
  Atwood, who died Jan. 11, 1809, In the 58 year of her age. In
  early life her feeble constitution gave painful premonition of her
  early exit. She however unexpectedly passed the meridian of life,
  discharging in a very laudable manner, filial parental & conjugal
  duties. At length the seeds of death were planted in her vitals—she
  sickened, languished & expired in hopes of a blessed immortality.

  Short is our longest day of life,
  And soon its prospect ends
  Yet on that day’s uncertain date
  Eternity depends.


  A N D R E W  F A R R E L L, of respectable connexions In
  I R E L A N D Aged 38 years, Owner & Commander of the Ship Hibernia,
  Sailed from Boston Jany 26, And was wrecked on Plymouth Beach Jany
  28 1805. His remains With five of seven seaman Who perished with him
  are here interred.

  O piteous lot of man’s uncertain state!
  What woes on life’s eventful journey wait—
  By sea what treacherous calms; what sudden storms;
  And death attendant in a thousand forms.

       *       *       *       *       *

  In memory of Mr Benjamin Harlow who died November 18th 1816 aged 34
  years.

  Friends and physicians could not save
  My mortal Body from the Grave
  Nor can the Grave confine me here
  When Christ the son of God appears

The westerly side of the hill abounds in curious inscriptions, and
among them we note the following:—

  Here lies Interrd
  The Body of Ms
  S A R A H  S P O O N E R
  who deceased
  January
  Ye 25th AD 1767
  In ye 72d year of
  her age. She was
  widow to ☞

  (The hand points to the next stone, which marks the grave of her
  husband.)

       *       *       *       *       *

  Sacred to the memory of Phebe J. Bramhall, A native of Virginia &
  wife of Benjn Bramhall Jun who died August 27, 1817, aged 21 years.

  Possess’d of an amiable disposition, She endeared herself to
  all around her
  “but”
  Weep not for her in her Spring time she flew
  To that land, where the wings of the soul are unfurl’d
  And now, like a star beyond evening’s cold dew
  Looks radiantly down on the tears of this world.


[Illustration: Sarah Spooner tombstone on left and
Thomas Spooner on right]

  Consecrated to the Memory of Mrs Mary Dyer who died April 17th 1805
  aged 47 years

  One thing is needfull And Mary hath chosen that Good part which
  shall not be taken away from her.

[Illustration: Calvin Crombie tombstone]

  Fanney Crombie daughter of Mr Calvin Crombie & Mrs Naomi his wife
  Departed this life June 25th 1804 in the 8th year of her age.


  As young as beautiful! and soft as young!
  And gay as soft! and innocent as gay!

  Erected in memory of Mr. William Keen, who died February 18, 1825,
  aged 69.

  This modest stone, what few vain marbles can,
  May truly say, Here lies an honest man.
  Calmly he looked on either life, and here
  Saw nothing to regret, or there to fear.
  From Nature’s temperate feast rose satisfied,
  Thank’d Heav’n that he had lived and that he died.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Here lies inter’d the body of _Miss Hannah Symmes_ eldest Daughter
  of _Mr Isaac and Mrs Hannah Symmes_ who at the early period of 28
  years after being long exercis’d with bodily pain with christian
  fortitude yielded her spirit to its benevolent Author. Born Jany
  30, 1766, Died March 27, 1794.

       *       *       *       *       *

  To the memory of THOMAS JACKSON _Esqr_ This Monument is
  erected Obiit September 19, 1794, Aged 67 years

  The spider’s most attenuated thread Is cord, is cable, to man’s
  slender tie.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Consecrated to the memory of Mrs P E G G Y  H O L B R O O K wife of
  Mr Jeremiah Holbrook who departed this life August 28th 1811 aged 26
  years

  Her amiable Disposition endeared her to her friends and died
  lamented by all who knew her

  Though harsh the strike and most severe the rod
  Cease mourner cease it was a strike from God

       *       *       *       *       *

  I
  am erected
  by
  _Josiah Cotton Esqr_
  in remembrance of Rachel his pious and Virtuous Wife, who
  died Janury 17th 1808 aged 50 years.
  In belief of Christianity I lived,
  In hope of a glorious Resurrection I died.

       *       *       *       *       *

  F. W. Jackson Obiit March 23, 1799 Aged One year 7 days.

  Heav’n knows What man
  He might have made, But we
  He died a most rare boy.


The three latter are on the extreme westerly edge of the ground, not
far from the corner where the powder house was built in 1770. No
trace of this structure remains.

Turning our steps toward the northerly side, the following epitaphs
invite our attention:—

  To the Memory Of Mrs. ANNA JACKSON Obii. July 20, 1794
  Aged 28 years.

  Death is the privilege of human nature,
  And life without it were not worth our taking
  Thither the poor, the unfortunate, and Mourner
  Fly for relief & lay their burdens down.

       *       *       *       *       *

  In Memory of Ezra Thayer Jackson son of Mr Thomas Jackson 2d & Mrs
  Lucy his wife who died Novr 23d 1783 Aged 25 days

  What did the Little hasty Sojournr find so forbidding & disgustful
  in our upper World to occasion its precipitant exit.

       *       *       *       *       *

  In Memory of Frederick son of Mr Thomas Jackson and Mrs Lucy his
  wife who died March J5, J788 aged J year & 5 days

  O! happy Probationer! accepted without being exercised!— It was thy
  peculiar Privilege not to feel the slightest of those Evils, which
  oppress thy surviving kindred.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Here lies Buried the Body of Mrs HANNAH GOODWIN, the wife
  of Mr John Goodwin and daughter of Mr Thomas and Mrs SARAH
  JACKSON who departed this life March 8th AD. 1777; in the 22d
  Year of her Age.

  A Soul pre par’d Needs no delays
  The Summons comes the Saint obeys
  Swift was Her flight & short the Road
  She close’d Her Eyes & saw Her God
  The Flesh rests here till Jesus comes
  And claims the Treasure from the Tomb

  In memory of Harriet Daughter of Mr Samuel & Mrs Hannah Jackson who
  died Sept. 17, 1793 aged 10 months & 3d (piece gone)

  Babes thither caught from Womb and Breast
  Claim Right to sing above the Rest
  Because they found the happy shore
  They never saw nor sought before.

       *       *       *       *       *

  In memory of Mrs. Tabitha Plasket who died June 10, 1807 aged 64
  years.

  Adieu vain world I have seen enough of the
  And I am careless what thou say’st of me
  Thy smiles I wish not;
  Nor thy frowns I fear,
  I am now at rest my head lies quiet here.

       *       *       *       *       *

  In Memory of Mr. JOSEPH PLASKET who died August 1, AD. 1794 in the
  48 year of his age

  All you that doth behold my stone
  Consider how soon I was gone
  Death does not always warning give
  Therefore be careful how you live
  Repent in time, no time delay
  I in my prime was called away.

  (Tabitha Plasket was for many years a school-teacher in Plymouth
  and was well known as an eccentric character.)

       *       *       *       *       *

  BATHSHEBA JAMES widow of Capt William Holmes 3d Mariner and
  daughter to Capt Joseph Doten Do. she was killed instantaneously in
  a thunder storm by the Electrich fluid of lightning on the 6th of
  July 1830, aged 35 years and 26 days.

  She was an affectionate wife; a dutiful Daughter, a happy mother,
  a kind and sincere friend. Alas sweet Blossom short was the period
  that thy enlivening virtues contributed to the Happiness of those
  connections; But oh, how long have they to mourn the loss of so
  much worth and Excellence.

  Farewell dear Wife untill that day more blest
  When if deserving I with thee shall rest,
  With thee shall rise with thee shall live above
  In worlds of endless bliss and boundless love.

  In memory of William Brewster Son of Capt William Brewster & Mrs
  Elizabeth his wife died April 5th 1804 aged one year 5 months & 17
  days

  The father and the children dead
  We hope to Heaven their souls are fled
  The widow now alone is left
  Of all her family bereft.
  May she now put her trust in God.
  To heal the wounds made by his rod.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Capt Ellis Brews      and Mrs Nancy      wife died Dec 13
  180      aged  4    years

  He listen’d for a while to hear
  Our mortal griefs; then tun’d his ear
  To angel harps and songs, and cried
  To join their notes celestial, sigh’d and dyed.

       *       *       *       *       *

  To the memory of Lemuel Cobb Robbins son of Capt Ansel Robbins and
  Hannah his wife who died Oct 2sd 1801 aged 1 year & 10 days

  We have no Reason for to mourn
    For gods will must be don
  He lent him for a little space
    Then sudden Called him home

       *       *       *       *       *

  In memory of Elizabeth Savery, wife of Lemuel Savery who died
  August 1, 1831, Aged 71 years.

  Remember me as you pass by,
  As you are now so once was I;
  As I am now so you must be,
  Prepare for death to follow me.

There are about 2,150 headstones on Burial Hill, and many graves are
unmarked. In some cases, undoubtedly, this absence of a memorial is
due to the considerable cost of stones in the early days. In other
instances the monuments have fallen prey to the ravages of time.
Rigid restrictions now govern burials in this ground.

[Illustration: Nathaniel Morton tombstone]

Standing thus among the graves of the pioneer dead and putting all
modern life behind him, one’s thoughts go back across the centuries
and grasp, with a new sense of reality, the facts of Pilgrim history.
The Forefathers, who did brave deeds and suffered much, and planted
in the wilderness the seeds of a free nation, stand forth not as
shadowy historical figures, but as living men. And thinking on such
things, these words of the poet Pierpont find ready echo:—

  “The Pilgrim spirit has not fled,
    It walks in noon’s broad light;
  And it watches the bed of the glorious dead,
    With the holy stars, by night.
  It watches the bed of the brave who have bled,
    And shall guard this ice-bound shore,
  Till the waves of the bay, where the Mayflower lay,
    Shall foam and freeze no more!”

[Illustration: Thomas Faunce tombstone]




Members of the Mayflower Company


      [1]John Carver.
      Katherine Carver, his wife.
      Desire Minter.
  8.  [1]John Howland.[5]
      Roger Wilder.
      William Latham.
      Maid Servant.
      Jasper More.

      [1]William Brewster.[4]
      Mary Brewster, his wife.
  6.  Love Brewster.
      Wrestling Brewster.
      Richard More.[2]
      His Brother.

      [1]Edward Winslow.[2]
      Elizabeth Winslow, his wife.
  5.  [1]George Soule.[2]
      Elias Story.
      Ellen More.

  2.  [1]William Bradford.[2]
      Dorothy Bradford, his wife.

      [1]Isaac Allerton.[4]
      Mary Allerton, his wife.
  6.  Bartholomew Allerton.
      Remember Allerton.
      Mary Allerton.
      John Hooke.

  1. [1]Richard Warren.[2]

     [1]John Billington.[4]
  4. Eleanor Billington, his wife.
     John Billington.
     Francis Billington.

     [1]Edward Tilley.
  4. Ann Tilley, his wife.
     Henry Sampson.[2]
     Humility Cooper.

     [1]John Tilley.[4]
  3. His wife.
     Elizabeth Tilley.

  2. [1]Francis Cooke.[4]
     John Cooke.

  2. [1]Thomas Rogers.[4]
     Joseph Rogers.

     [1]Thomas Tinker.
  3. His wife.
     His son.

  2. [1]John Rigdale.
     Alice Rigdale, his wife.

     [1]James Chilton.[4]
  3. His wife.
     Mary Chilton.

  1. [1]Samuel Fuller.[2]

  2. [1]John Crackston.
     John Crackston, Jr.

  2. [1]Miles Standish.[2]
     Rose Standish, his wife.

     [1]Christopher Martin.
  4. His wife.
     Solomon Prower.
     John Langemore.

     [1]William Mullins.[4]
     Alice Mullins, his wife.
  5. Joseph Mullins.
     Robert Carter.
     Priscilla Mullins.

     [1]William White.[4]
     Susanna White, his wife.
  6. Resolved White.
     Peregrine White.
     William Holbeck.
     Edward Thompson.

     [1]Stephen Hopkins.[4]
     Elizabeth Hopkins, his wife.
     Giles Hopkins.
  8. Constance Hopkins.
     Damaris Hopkins.
     Oceanus Hopkins.
     [1]Edward Doty.[2]
     [1]Edward Leister.

     [1]Edward Fuller.[4]
  3. His wife.
     Samuel Fuller.

     [1]John Turner.
  3. His son.
     Another son.

     [1]Francis Eaton.[4]
  3. Sarah Eaton, his wife.
     Samuel Eaton.

  1. [1]Moses Fletcher.
  1. [1]Thomas Williams.
  1. [1]Digory Priest.[2]
  1. [1]John Goodman.
  1. [1]Edmund Margeson.
  1. [1]Richard Britteridge.
  1. [1]Richard Clarke.
  1. [1]Richard Gardner.
  1. [1]Gilbert Winslow.
  1. [1]Peter Browne.[2]
  1. [1]John Alden.[3]
  1. [1]Thomas English.
  1. [1]John Allerton.
  1. William Trevore.
  1. —— Ely.
  1. William Butten (died at sea).


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Signers of the Compact.

[2] Mayflower passengers from whom descent has been proved.

[3] Includes descent from William and Alice Mullins and their
daughter Priscilla.

[4] Includes descent from wife or child on the Mayflower.

[5] Includes descent from John Tilley and his daughter Elizabeth.




Pilgrim Gifts

[Illustration: Mayflower Coat of Arms Plate]

THE MAYFLOWER COAT OF ARMS PLATE

The crests of nine Pilgrim families combined on one plate: Winslow,
Bradford, Warren, Brewster, Hopkins, White, Howland, Fuller, Alden
and Standish. Made in the correct enamel colors. By mail, $1.35. Made
in Old Blue. By mail, 85c.


PLYMOUTH ROCK GUEST ROOM TAPPERS

[Illustration: Plymouth Rock Guest Room Tappers]

Made of solid brass in the shape of Plymouth Rock with figures 1620.
A pleasing novelty for the guest room door—size three inches—price
postpaid, $1.60.


IVOREX PLAQUES

The plaques are made in a pleasing tone of old ivory, the figures
beautifully modelled in relief. When hung on the wall by their silken
cords they can hardly be distinguished from the real hand-carved
ivory. Very desirable for wedding, Christmas or birthday gifts.

  Made in the following subjects. Size 6×9 at $2.50 each.

  The Mayflower in Plymouth Harbor
  Landing of the Pilgrims, Dec. 21, 1620
  The Old Folks at Home
  Pilgrims Signing the Compact in the Cabin of the Mayflower,
    Nov. 11, 1620
  A Friendly Call
  Plymouth Colony in 1621

  Also in the following subjects. Size 4×7 at $1.50 each.

  The March of Myles Standish
  Priscilla and John Alden
  The Return of the Mayflower
  National Monument to the Forefathers
  Pilgrim Hall
  “Why don’t you speak for yourself, John?”
  Myles Standish House, 1666
  John Alden House, 1653
  Portico over Plymouth Rock
  Myles Standish Monument
  Pilgrims Going to Church

  Add 15c for postage and insurance.


MODEL OF SHIP MAYFLOWER

[Illustration: Model of Ship Mayflower]

A Paper Weight in antique brass or copper finish. Postpaid 75c.


REPRODUCTION OF IVOREX PLAQUES

[Illustration: Landing of the Pilgrims]

[Illustration: A Friendly Call]

[Illustration: Winslow]

COATS OF ARMS OF MAYFLOWER FAMILIES

  Bradford, Howland, Standish, Alden, Brewster, Fuller, Winslow,
  White, Cook, Warren, Hopkins

  Water Colors, 12×15                        $18.00
  Water Colors, 12×15, framed, 16×20          23.00
  Water Colors, 8×10                           5.00
  Water Colors, 8×10, framed, 11×14            7.00
  Water Colors, 4×5                            2.00
  Water Colors, 4×5, framed, 8×10              3.50
  Prints as illustrated above                   .25


Pilgrim Literature

  History of Plymouth Plantation, 1608-1650.

  The original narrative by Gov. William Bradford with notes by Wm.
  T. Davis. By mail, $4.00.

Standish of Standish.

  By Jane G. Austin. A story of the Pilgrims. Deeply interesting.
  Historically correct. 12mo, cloth, 422 pages. By mail $2.50.

Betty Alden.

  By Jane G. Austin. The story of the first-born daughter of the
  Pilgrims. 12mo, cloth, 384 pages. By mail, $2.50.

A Nameless Nobleman.

  By Jane G. Austin. A story of the Old Colony, 12mo, cloth, 369
  pages. By mail, $2.50.

Dr. LeBaron and his Daughters.

  By Jane G. Austin. A story of the Old Colony. 12mo, cloth, 460
  pages. By mail, $2.50.

David Alden’s Daughter.

  And Other Stories of Colonial Times, by Jane G. Austin, 12mo,
  cloth, 316 pages. By mail, $2.50.

The Pilgrims and Their History.

  By Roland G. Usher, Ph. D. The three hundred ten pages of this book
  contains all of the really pertinent information about the Pilgrims
  and their history. Illustrated, by mail, $2.25.

The Pilgrim Fathers.

  Containing reprints of Morton’s New England Memorial, Cushman’s
  Discourse, Winslow’s Relation, and other contemporary narrations,
  364 pages, flexible leather, postpaid, $1.70; cloth, 90c.

The Women Who Came in the Mayflower.

  And their comrades who came later in The Ann and The Fortune, by
  Annie Russell Marble. By mail, $1.00.

Bradford’s History of the Plymouth Settlement, 1608-1650.

  Rendered into modern English by Harold Paget. By mail, $3.50.




THE COMPACT

[Illustration: The Compact]

Signed in the cabin of the Mayflower, November 21, 1620, with the
names of the signers.

Printed in old style type on a parchment paper made by hand, and
mounted on rollers in form of a scroll. Price, securely packed, by
mail, 40 cents.


PRISCILLA SPINNING WHEELS

A pretty souvenir of the days of Priscilla and John Alden. An
inexpensive favor for a dinner party. Five inches in height—each
wheel in a gift box with lines.

[Illustration: spinning wheel]

  “Then as he opened the door, he beheld the form of Priscilla
  Seated beside her wheel, and the carded wool like a snow drift
  Piled at her knee, her white hands feeding the ravenous spindle,
  While with her foot on the treadle she guided the wheel in
  its motion.”

  —Longfellow.


The price 35c postpaid or $3.20 for a dozen.


CARBON PRINTS

  The Pilgrim Monument, 11×14         $ .40 postpaid
  Priscilla and John Alden, 14×18       .65 postpaid
  Pilgrims Going to Church, 9×17        .50 postpaid


  Cape Cod Ahoy!

  A travel book for the summer visitor by Arthur Wilson Tarbell.
  Stories of the Pilgrim pioneers, stories of summer life, stories
  of fishing boats that go out at dawn, and best of all an
  accurate appraisal of the landscape and the seascape. 347 pages,
  illustrated, postpaid $2.00.

Cape Cod, New and Old.

  By Agnes Edwards, profusely illustrated by Ruyl. Written with
  genuine appreciation of the charm of “Old Cape Cod.” By mail, $3.00.

Shipmasters of Cape Cod.

  by Henry C. Kittredge. A brilliant chronicle of the great days of
  sail when such Cape ships as the Starlight, the Flying Dragon and
  the Belle of the West hung up proud records for all time in three
  oceans. 320 pages, illustrated, 1935, by mail, $3.50.

Cape Cod.

  By Henry D. Thoreau. 16 full page illustrations. Traveling on foot
  through the Cape, Thoreau missed nothing that was entertaining or
  characteristic. By mail, $2.00.

Cape Cod Ballads.

  By Joseph C. Lincoln. By mail, $1.10.

Cape Cod and the Old Colony.

  By Albert Perry Brigham with 35 full page illustrations from
  photographs and maps. By mail, $3.50.

Cape Cod; Its People and Their History.

  By Henry Crocker Kittredge—published in 1930. Postpaid $5.00.

The Story of the Pilgrim Fathers.

  By Albert V. Lally is a concise history, well told, with nine full
  page illustrations from original paintings by H. A. Ogdten. By mail
  75c.

The Old Farmer’s Almanac

  Gives you Tides, Moon Phases, Weather Forecasts, Fish and Game
  Laws, Automobile Laws and 96 pages of valuable and entertaining
  information. The price 20c postpaid.




THE MAYFLOWER CANDLESTICK

[Illustration: Mayflower Candlestick]

An exact copy of a brass candlestick brought over in the Mayflower by
William White, father of Peregrine White. The original candlestick
is now in Pilgrim Hall. Price, $2.50 each. If by mail add 15 cents
postage.


DRIFTWOOD BLAZE

A powder which imparts to an open wood fire a combination of
beautiful colors fully equal to driftwood. In gift boxes, 40 cents,
and 85 cents, postpaid.


20 PLYMOUTH POST CARDS

A special selection of our finest colored cards—Pilgrim
Paintings—Points of Interest—Old Houses—50c the package, postpaid.


FIR BALSAM INCENSE

“A breath from the pines.” Box of 36 cones 30c postpaid.

Log Cabin Incense Burner with box of cones 90c postpaid.


SMALL BROOCH PINS

Plymouth Rock or Ship Mayflower 15c each


THE PILGRIM CALENDAR

  A twelve sheet Calendar, 8x10 in size, with a cover picture in
  water colors.

  The twelve monthly sheets which make up the Calendar carry pictures
  of historic places in Plymouth with brief descriptions under each.
  A souvenir of real worth—a pleasing gift for Christmas time. The
  price is 75c each or six for $4.00, postpaid.


  Yonder Sails the Mayflower

  A historical novel by Honore Morrow. A new concept of the character
  of the Pilgrim men and women and their problems during those last
  frantic, excited weeks before their great adventure began in the
  sailing of the Mayflower from Plymouth, England. 368 pages, 1934,
  postpaid, $2.50.

Courtship of Myles Standish

  Longfellow’s famous poem of the days of Priscilla and John Alden. A
  dainty little gift volume in board covers. By mail, 30 cents.

Guide to Historic Plymouth.

  Descriptive of the historic points and localities famous in the
  story of the Pilgrims. Profusely illustrated, 96 pages, postpaid,
  30c.

A Brief History of the Pilgrims.

  Compiled from the writings of Governor Bradford and Governor
  Winslow, and largely in their own words. Alphabetical list of
  passengers on the Mayflower with valuable notations in regard to
  each person. 57 pages, paper covers. By mail, 35c.

Handbook of Old Burial Hill.

  Its History, Its Famous Dead, and Its Quaint Epitaphs. Illustrated.
  Postpaid, 30c.

The Story of Jones River.

  And the Settlement of Kingston, by S. Y. Bailey, illustrated, By
  mail, 55c.

Plymouth Tercentenary Pageant.

  100 pictures of Pilgrim Days as enacted in “The Pilgrim Spirit” by
  a cast of 1,300 Plymouth people. Full description of this historic
  event—scenes, tableaux, episodes. Size, 8 by 10. Postpaid, 60c.

Handbook of Historic Duxbury.

  By Gershom Bradford. By mail, 55c.

John Howland, a Mayflower Pilgrim.

  By William Howland. Illustrated, postpaid, $1.65; leather binding
  $5.00.

[Illustration: model of Plymouth Rock]

  This Plymouth Rock
        of Bayberry sweet
  Will wax your thread
        For sewing neat.

A miniature model of Plymouth Rock moulded in genuine bayberry wax
with the date 1620. A real novelty for milady’s work bag. Each one in
a box, 30c.


HAND-DIPPED BAYBERRY CANDLES

Made from pure domestic Bayberry Wax.

   4 inch, $1.00 dozen
   6 inch,  2.40 dozen
   8 inch,  3.00 dozen
  10 inch,  4.50 dozen

Add 10c for postage

One pair in gift box with spray of bayberry and card—6 inch, 65c—8
inch, 85c, postpaid.


PRISCILLA COSTUMES

Very desirable for use at fairs, pageants, Thanksgiving or New
England dinners. Fine Linen White Caps, 50c; Neck Kerchief and Cuffs,
50c; Apron $1.00. The complete set in gift box, $1.50 postpaid.


“PENELOPE WINSLOW” BODKIN

[Illustration: bodkin]

A perfect copy in sterling silver, of the bodkin once owned by
Penelope Winslow, and now in Pilgrim Hall. By mail, $1.50.


PILGRIM BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS

  The Story of the Pilgrims, for Children.

  By Roland G. Usher—a dramatic, accurate and patriotic story which
  should leave in the child’s mind correct impressions about the
  fundamental factors in Pilgrim history. Illustrated, by mail, $1.10.

Pilgrim Stories.

  For Children, illustrated, postpaid, $1.00.

The Land of the Pilgrims.

  By J. Earle Thomson A. M., illustrated with many new pictures in
  half tone, 291 pages including Longfellow’s poem, “The Courtship of
  Myles Standish,” postpaid, $1.35.

Mayflower Heroes.

  The author, G. L. Archer, tells the dramatic story of the first
  years of the Pilgrim Colony in a uniquely fascinating way that
  makes the heroes of the story—Bradford, Winslow, Standish, Alden,
  S’quanto, Massasoit—stand out vividly to the boys and girls of
  today. 346 pages, illustrated, 1934, by mail, $3.00.

From Boston to Plymouth.

  By Anne Russell Marble. A story of the boys and girls of 1630 who
  came from Old England to New England. Postpaid, $2.00.


COLOR BAROMETERS

Colonial dressed figures embossed on an easel card with dress
material sensitive to weather changes. 20c each postpaid.

  This little maid in _blue_ appears
    For weather _dry_ and _fair_;
  Puts on a _pink_ when storm she fears
    Or _damp_ and _humid_ air;
  And when she dons a _violet_ gown
    A change you can depend upon.


PILGRIM BOOK MARKS

Dainty Ribbon Markers—five subjects. Priscilla—The Pilgrim
Maiden—Massasoit—Pilgrim Monument—The Mayflower. Pretty for favors or
class gifts. The price 20c each, $2.00 a dozen postpaid.


PLYMOUTH ROCK CHOCOLATES

[Illustration: Plymouth Rock Chocolates]

A solid piece of sweet chocolate moulded into the shape of Plymouth
Rock, with date 1620. Box of six, 25c; box of 30, for 75c postpaid.


OLD BLUE PILGRIM WARES

[Illustration: Old Blue Pilgrim Wares]

Made to our order in Staffordshire, England. Send for illustrated
price list of Platters, Plates, Pitchers, Cups and Saucers. Teapots,
Sugars and Creamers, etc.


PRISCILLA BROOCH

[Illustration: Priscilla Brooch]

A neat, artistic brooch carrying a portrait of Priscilla. Very
effective to wear with a Pilgrim costume.

Size of illustration. The price, 30c postpaid.


Views In and About Plymouth

  Photographs—size 6½×8½—35c each; $3.50 a dozen
  Lantern Slides, 50c each; $6.00 a dozen
  Post Cards of quality, 30c a dozen

  1 Plymouth Rock.

  2 The Portico over Plymouth Rock.

  3 The Portico and Harbor from Cole’s Hill.

  4 Portico and Cole’s Hill, first Pilgrim burial-place.

  5 Plymouth Harbor as seen from Cole’s Hill.

  6 Leyden Street, first street in New England.

  8 Leyden Street in 1622, showing first Common House, Gov.
  Bradford’s House, and the buildings assigned to Brown, Goodman,
  Brewster, Billington, Allerton, Cooke, and Winslow.

  9 Town Square, Showing Church of the First Parish, Town House,
  formerly the Old Colonial Court House, built in 1749. Site of Gov.
  Bradford’s House.

  10 Old Burial Hill, the entrance.

  12 Ancient Cannon, marking site of the Old Fort, Burial Hill, built
  in 1621 as a defense against the Indians, and also used as a place
  of worship.

  13 The Old Fort and First Meeting-house, 1621.

  14 Gov. Bradford’s Monument, Burial Hill, showing also the graves
  of his family.

  16 Grave of John Howland, 1672.

  20 Grave of Dr. Francis Le Barron, “The Nameless Nobleman.”

  21 Pilgrim Hall.

  22 Interior of Pilgrim Hall.

  24 Landing of the Pilgrims, painting by Sargent.

  25 The Departure from Delft Haven, painting by Charles Lucy.

  26 Embarkation of the Pilgrims, by Weir.

  27 Gov. Carver’s Chair; Ancient Spinning-wheel.

  28 Elder Brewster’s Chair; Cradle of Peregrine White, the first
  Pilgrim baby.

  29 Sword of Myles Standish; Iron Pot and Pewter Platter, brought by
  Standish in the “Mayflower”; Chest owned by Gov. Edward Winslow.

  30 The “Mayflower” in Plymouth Harbor, from painting by W. F.
  Halsall, Pilgrim Hall.

  31 Group of Winslow Relics, Pilgrim Hall.

  32 Group of White Relics, Pilgrim Hall.

  33 National Monument to the Forefathers.

  34 Statue of Freedom, National Monument.

  35 Statue of Law, National Monument.

  36 Statue of Education, National Monument.

  37 Statue of Morality, National Monument.

  38 Treaty with Massasoit, alto-relief, Nat’l Monument.

  39 Landing of Pilgrims, alto-relief, Nat’l Monument.

  40 Clark’s Island, where the Pilgrims spent their first Sabbath in
  Plymouth.

  43 Signing of the Compact, alto-relief, Nat’l Monument.

  46 County Court House and Registry Building.

  48 Brewster Gardens, along Town Brook.

  49 The Pilgrim Maiden, bronze statue by Kitson.

  50 Departure from Delft Haven, alto-relief, National Monument.

  51 Pilgrim Meersteads, along Town Brook.

  55 Outlet, Billington Sea.

  56 Duxbury Light, entrance Plymouth Harbor.

  59 Church of the Pilgrimage, Congregational.

  61 The First Church, Unitarian.

  63 Mayflower Inn, Manomet.

  66 Plymouth Rock House.

  67 Hotel Pilgrim.

  68 Samoset House.

  72 Font in Austerfield Church where Gov. William Bradford was
  baptized.

  73 Plymouth in 1622,—a combination picture, showing Leyden Street,
  the Old Fort, Landing from the Shallop, Plymouth Rock, and the ship
  “Mayflower.”

  74 Gov. Bradford’s House, Plymouth, 1621.

  75 Birthplace of William Bradford, Austerfield.

  76 Austerfield Church, England.

  79 Scrooby Church, England.

  80 Interior Scrooby Church.

  81 Scrooby Manor House, Elder William Brewster’s Residence.

  82 Bawtry Church, England.

  84 Site of John Robinson’s House at Leyden.

  85 Church at Leyden where John Robinson was buried.

  86 Memorial Tablet to John Robinson on Church at Leyden.

  87 Old Church at Delft Haven where the Pilgrims held their last
  service before the embarkation.

  88 The Pilgrim Fathers holding their first meeting for public
  worship in North America.

  89 “The March of Myles Standish.”

  90 The Pilgrims Sighting Land.

  93 Peregrine White House, Marshfield.

  97 Howland House, built in 1666.

  98 William Harlow House, built of timber from the Old Burial Hill
  Fort, 1677.

  99 Homestead of Gen. John Winslow, 1726.

  101 The Winslow House, built in 1754 by Edward Winslow, Colonial
  architecture.

  102 North Street, looking up from shore.

  104 Statue of Myles Standish.

  105 Myles Standish Monument.

  106 Standish House, Duxbury, 1666.

  108 Grave of Daniel Webster, Marshfield.

  112 John Alden House, Duxbury, 1653.

  113 Maj. John Bradford House, Kingston, 1675.

  115 Grave of Myles Standish, Duxbury.

  117 Will of Peregrine White.

  120 Sailing of the Mayflower, by Charles Cope.

  121 Priscilla and John Alden, by Boughton.

  123 “Why don’t you Speak for Yourself, John?”

  124 Departure of the “Mayflower,” by Bayes.

  125 Priscilla, from painting by G. H. Boughton.

  126 Pilgrims Exiles, from painting by Boughton.

  127 Pilgrims going to Church, from painting by Boughton.

  129 Return of the “Mayflower,” by Boughton.

  130 Portrait of Edward Winslow, Governor of Plymouth Colony, one of
  the “Mayflower” company. Only authentic portrait of a “Mayflower”
  Pilgrim.

  139 Lorea Standish Sampler, Pilgrim Hall.

  140 The Pilgrim Compact.

  141 Signing of the Compact, by Edwin White.

  142 Signing of the Compact, by Percy Moran.

  143 Original Manuscript of Mrs. Heman’s “The Breaking Waves Dashed
  High,” Pilgrim Hall.

  146 Gov. Edw. Winslow’s Table, Pilgrim Hall.

  147 Gov. Edw. Winslow’s Chair, 1614, Pilgrim Hall.

  150 Frame of the ship “Sparrowhawk” wrecked on Cape Cod
  1626—Pilgrim Hall.

  151 The Pilgrim Charter, oldest State Document in New England.

  152 Massasoit, Great Sachem of Wampanoags, bronze statue by Cyrus
  E. Dallin.

  153 The Ship Mayflower at Sea.

  155 The Fuller Cradle.

  156 Staircase Edw. Winslow House, 1754.

  157 Doorway Edw. Winslow House, 1754.

  158 A Colonial Doorway on North Street.

  159 A Colonial Doorway on Court Street.

  160 The Howland Pulpit in First Church.

  162 Pilgrim Memorial Monument, Provincetown.

  165 Original Daniel Webster House, 1859, Marshfield.

  166 Memorial to Mayflower Passengers, Cole’s Hill, showing
  inscription.

  167 Same Memorial, showing names of passengers.

  168 Stone Seat, Cole’s Hill, presented by Penn. Society of New
  England Women.

  171 Mayflower Fountain, Pilgrim Hall Garden.

  172 Mary Chilton Tablet, Spring Lane, Boston.

  173 Stone Seat, placed by Nat’l Society Daughters of American
  Colonists in Brewster Gardens.

  174 Pilgrim Spring, Brewster Gardens.

  175 Fountain, erected by Daughters of American Revolution in Memory
  of the Women of the Mayflower.

  176 Model of the Ship Mayflower, Pilgrim Hall.

  177 Antiquarian House.

  180 Plymouth Memorial Building.


MAYFLOWER PAPER WEIGHTS

A useful souvenir for use on office or home desk. Finished in bronze
or colors—85c postpaid.


COLONIAL MIRRORS

[Illustration: Colonial Mirrors]

Useful and ornamental are these mirrors framed in Colonial black and
gold with panels in color of Pilgrim subjects. Outside measure 7 by
13, $3.25, or 10 by 18 $5.75 postpaid.


“EVERYBODY LOVES A LOG FIRE”

Start it Quickly with

THE CAPE COD FIRE LIGHTER


POLISHED BRASS

  Tankard and Torch  $4.25
  Tray                1.10
  Extra Torch         1.60

[Illustration: Polished Brass Cape Cod Fire Lighter]

  MISSION STYLE
  Complete
  With Tray

[Illustration: Mission Style Cape Cod Fire Lighter]

  Wrought Iron     $7.50
  Hammered Brass    8.50
  Hammered Copper   8.50
  Extra Torch       2.00


MYLES STANDISH POT

[Illustration: Myles Standish Pot]

A new Cape Cod Fire Lighter made in the shape of the old black iron
pot, now in Pilgrim Hall, once owned by Capt. Myles Standish of the
Mayflower. A unique and useful article for the open fire place.

Five inches in height and six across. Price $4.50, including torch,
postage additional according to zone. Weight, packed for mailing, 10
lbs.


BANJO CLOCKS

[Illustration: Banjo Clock]

A reproduction from a Colonial design, with glass panel painting
of the ship Mayflower. The clock is 17 inches in height of solid
mahogany beautifully finished with brass trimmings and eagle. An
eight-day lever timepiece that will make a distinctive and useful
gift. The price, $16.00 postpaid. The same design clock, 44 inch,
$46.50


A STERLING SILVER PAPER CUTTER

YE SWORD OF MYLES STANDISH

  “_Spake, in the pride of his heart, Myles Standish,
      the Captain of Plymouth,
  This is the sword of Damascus I fought with in Flanders_”

  —_Longfellow._

[Illustration: Sword of Myles Standish]

The famous Damascus blade of the redoubtable Pilgrim Captain is
one of the most valuable relics to be seen in Pilgrim Hall. It was
handed down to Myles Standish from the Crusaders, and possessed
an interesting history even in his day. This miniature sword is
perfectly copied from the original, even in the engraving of the
curious Arabic inscription on the blade. Length, 6 inches. The price,
$3.25 postpaid.


PLYMOUTH ROCK PAPER WEIGHTS

Made of glass, moulded into the shape of Plymouth Rock, with the date
1620. On the under side appears the inscription:

  “A rock in the wilderness welcomed our sires
    From bondage far over the dark rolling sea.
  On that holy altar they kindled the fires,
    Jehovah! Which glow in our bosoms for thee.”

A useful memento of historic value. In two sizes. Price, by mail, 50c
and 35c.


MASSASOIT

[Illustration: Massasoit]

A bronze replica, 11 inches in height, of the statue designed by
Cyrus E. Dallin and erected by Improved Order of Red Men on Cole’s
Hill at Plymouth.

Massasoit was Chief of the Wampanoag Indians, in whose country the
Pilgrims settled, and through his kindness, for more than fifty
years, they were able to survive and prosper.

Price of replica $8.00 by insured mail.


PICTURE MAP OF CAPE COD

picturing points of Pilgrim interest and showing the course of
the exploring party in the Mayflower Shallop from Provincetown
to Plymouth, December, 1620. Size 25×36 printed in colors, $1.10
postpaid.


OLD BLUE PILGRIM PLATES

—10-inch—

[Illustration: Landing of the Pilgrims]

The old fashioned border which sets off the Pilgrim pictures is
an exact copy of the Staffordshire ware of a century ago. Eight
subjects—the price $1.00 each or $1.15 postpaid.

[Illustration: Plymouth Rock Chickens]

PLYMOUTH ROCK CHICKENS

A novelty in glass for individual salts—white, black, blue, green or
crystal.

  35c each.
  4 for $1.15 postpaid.


COLONIAL IRON KETTLES

Miniature size Kettles, Sauce Pans and Frying Pans. A novelty for use
as ash receivers. Postpaid 30c.


LANTERN SLIDES

  We furnish lantern slides from any subjects on our list of
  photographs. They are made by an expert from the original
  negatives. Price 50c each; $6.00 per dozen.


PRISCILLA AND JOHN ALDEN CANDLES

[Illustration: Priscilla Alden Candles]

Hand dipped and painted candles, made on Cape Cod, representing two
Mayflower passengers famous in Pilgrim story. The pair in a gift box,
$1.25 postpaid. With low glass Candle Holders, decorated in colors to
match costumes, $2.00 the pair postpaid.

[Illustration: John Alden Candles]


PLYMOUTH OILETTE CALENDARS

[Illustration: Plymouth Oilette Calendars]

Plymouth pictures in colors—size 3½ by 5½ closely resembling oil
paintings—with ribbon attached Calendar for this year and next. Ten
subjects for selection:

Landing of the Pilgrims—Brewster Gardens—North Street—“Why Don’t You
Speak for Yourself, John?”—Ship Mayflower at Sea—Plymouth Rock—The
Old Fort, 1621—Pilgrim Monument—Interior John Alden House—Myles
Standish Monument.

  25c each postpaid.


PLYMOUTH FOLDERS

48 pictures in colors, 15c postpaid.


PRISCILLA AND JOHN ALDEN

[Illustration: John Alden doll]

  Send Cheerful Greetings
  From Pilgrim Plymouth
  and ask you to look over this
  list of
  Gifts With a Pilgrim Flavor

A selection from the list will make a Present of real Artistic Worth,
Combining Sentiment and Historic Value.


THE PILGRIM DOLLS

[Illustration: Priscilla Alden doll]

are a happy reminder of “the good old days of John Alden and the days
of Priscilla the spinner.” Dressed in ye costumes of 1620 they make
delightful souvenirs for the little folks. Four inches in height, in
a gift box, cloth costumes, $1.10 the pair; crepe costumes, 60c the
pair, postpaid.

[Illustration: village]


ORDER BLANK

  A. S. BURBANK
  PILGRIM BOOKSTORE
  Plymouth, Mass.

  Please send to...............................................
       Address.................................................
  the following articles, remittance for which is sent herewith

  ==========+=========================++===========++==========
   Quantity |         Article         ||   Price   ||  Total
  ----------+-------------------------++-----+-----++----+-----
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |
            |                         ||     |     ||    |




  Transcriber’s Notes

  pg 17 Changed cholars translated “In Jehovah’s name to: scholars
  pg 18 Added missing period after: six British sovereigns and
          the Com’th
  pg 51 Added missing period after: By mail, 85c
  pg 55 Changed comma to period after: A Nameless Nobleman. By
          Jane G. Austin
  pg 55 Added period after: The Pilgrims and Their History
  pg 65 Added missing period after: Elder William Brewster’s Residence
  pg 74 Added missing period after: delightful souvenirs for the
          little folks



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 70098 ***
